hi I'm Jimmy Kimmel and tonight's show
is going to be different from our usual
show we don't have a studio audience
here tonight because going forward with
a comedy show didn't feel right
considering what happened yesterday so
I'd like to just speak to you directly
as you undoubtedly know Kobe Bryant and
his daughter Gianna and seven of their
friends were killed in a helicopter
crash yesterday here in Los Angeles and
that was a punch in the gut for many of
us Kobe was and I know this might not
make sense but he was just the last
person you could ever imagine something
like this happening to he was so strong
and and handsome and smart and energetic
he was a hero and when I say that I
don't mean a hero like real heroes like
firefighters or doctors and nurses who
actually save lives I don't mean to
compare what he did for a living to what
they do I know there are more important
things of basketball almost everything
is more important but Kobe was a hero in
the way Superman is a hero he was so big
it was almost like he was a fictional
character he was a real-life superhero
with a costume and everything walking
amongst us those of us who love the
Lakers know it seemed like he always
came through he always showed up to save
the day he wanted to save the day he had
a force of will he never gave up as an
athlete he was incredibly gifted more
than almost anyone he was talented
beyond reason and yet he worked harder
than everyone he worked harder than
people with much less talent than he had
he took his job in his pursuit of
excellence so seriously
he was completely dedicated to being as
good as he possibly could be which is
aspiring to anyone who does anything and
we loved him because of that but we also
loved him because he was ours
we watched him grow up here he came to
LA when he was a teenager and unlike
almost every other superstar athlete he
never left in his 20-year career he will
only wore two uniforms for the Lakers
and for the United States Olympic team
there were times when it seemed like he
would leave but he did and he stayed
until the end
and he's someone almost everyone in this
city loved and not just Lakers fans
everyone would light up when they saw
him I saw it many times he was special
he was a special person a great
basketball player for sure but more than
that he had so many interests outside of
sports he was intensely curious he would
call people he admired to interview them
at business leaders writers and vendors
he was always learning always improving
he had a hunger for that when he was
injured when he tore his Achilles I sent
him a book and he had to my surprise he
read it and then called me to discuss it
in maniacal detail he wanted to know
everything about it and I was like I
don't know Kobe I didn't write it I just
bought the book and I had to put him in
touch with the guy who wrote the book
and that's what he was like I had many
conversations with Kobe off of
television and they always involved his
daughters always once he retired from
basketball his life revolved around
their lives he was very proud of them he
loved being a father when my son had
heart surgery he checked in with me
repeatedly he made a point once Billy my
son was out of the hospital to meet him
he wanted to meet him and from time to
time he would check in to see how he was
doing and yes I know he was not a
perfect person I understand that my
intention is not to canonize him or or
make judgments about things I don't know
anything about but I will say he loved
his family he worked very hard and he
brought a lot of joy to a lot of people
in the city and we're gonna miss him and
I hope you will pray for his daughter
Gianna and for their mother Vanessa for
the three girls Kobe left behind who
lost their father and their sister and
for his friends were on that fight play
with him the Altobelli family Cristina
mousers family the Chester family are as
a byun the pilot I can't imagine how
much they are missed this was a terrible
loss for those families and for the
Lakers for Kobe's teammates for his fans
it's just there's no silver lining here
it's it's all bad it's all sad he was a
a bright light and that's how I want to
remember him he was on this show 15
times we had many fun and interesting
conversations at
night we are going to share some of
those to remember him
starting with what turned out to be the
last interview I got to do with him from
September of last year please wish a
warm Taco Tuesday to Lakers legend Kobe
Bryant
[Applause]
[Music]
do you hear that a lot
you're running around in traffic and
whatnot all the time you do it's awesome
though could be a lot worse gonna be a
lot worse yeah that's right how you
everything all right Bret you have
another daughter you know yeah she's uh
two months old now
you call her ko ko ko ko ko ko ko ko her
middle name is Kobe it is laughter you
yeah not that wasn't my idea it wasn't
your idea no no but that's what came to
me and said you know I'm thinking about
naming her Kobe the middle name but I'm
like uh yeah let me explain it yeah no
okay okay then Tom goes on and she's
like I'm actually gonna change your
middle name I'm like whoa whoa whoa whoa
whoa I didn't think you were too hot
about it I said a kid changes that like
okay give me a gift and then take it
back late that's right you know so four
daughters now yeah I think it's good
that you have daughters I feel like if
you're the son in sports it might be too
much for that kid yeah I do yeah yeah
maybe but you know like I love having
girls yeah like I love you yeah they're
awesome man you know having a boy I
think my wife wants a boy more so
tonight oh I see oh well I love my girls
you know she keeps saying stop speaking
it into existence
uh-huh I love my girl stop saying you
want a boy what is Kobe Bryant like in
the delivery room do you bring the Mamba
mentality to that to my wife but she was
giving birth man she Mamba mentality my
ass upside my head
your older daughter is now how old 16
was she driving now she is she is she's
like a seasoned vet to Manly why she's
just really calm Oh on the wheel I said
very calm doesn't want to listen to any
loud or fast music she's a very safe and
like cautious curfew is that just when
you're in the car or as I don't know if
that's always brought like she's just
real cool calm and collected man like
I'm very very proud of me yeah you're
very lucky all that means my next one's
gonna be a maniac behind the wheel yeah
yeah yeah really you know I always say
if you look at the eldest daughter uh
she's always like the calm responsible
thoughtful one you know and then the
second sister is like a tornado
you know like Elsa and Anna you know
yeah she could freeze the city and all
that I know she's responsible about and
then there's Anna who just jumps off a
cliff uh-huh it's kind of stuff and
that's certainly our house but then we
have two other ones so you're second
oldest doors Gianna right yeah oh so she
really is like honor you gave yeah how
about that huh she was and correct me if
I have anything this wrong but you had a
game and it was a playoff game against
the Suns you you tied the game when in
overtime and then you scored it like six
seconds left
then you raced to the delivery room and
later that evening like that early in
the morning your daughter was born that
sound sounds about right
okay is it that night of like the day
after I can't remember exactly no your
wife was in labor while you were playing
the game
nah she was like she didn't happen
during the game it happened after I just
like so there's no thought like maybe
I'll miss this one and head home the
game may be over times not a good idea
in the long run yeah yeah yeah you um
know unfortunately that wasn't the
situation you would have played 10 over
x if it came down to it would you not no
no
[Applause]
you know jumping
hey mama mentality upside my head well I
was on vacation I say you did an
interview and you're talking you know
kind of goofing around but you were
talking about Shaq and you're saying you
know we're talking about Shaq who was
you know not quite as driven as no one's
as driven as you are but you insinuated
that a Shaq kept himself in better shape
you would have even more rings than you
have already right
and chef did he take offense to that
yeah yeah a little bit but you know wait
but here's the thing though like it was
really a compliment like people missed
the whole first half of that in which I
said he was the most dominant player
I've ever seen and I felt like he could
have been the greatest of all time
mm-hmm so people kind of missed that
part of it yeah it caught on to the lazy
part yeah right that was like you know
I've kind of said that tongue-in-cheek
like we're gonna win 12 rings no we're
gonna play yeah but it's uh but it's all
good now did you know what happens after
that do you go oh boy I better call him
or call you how does it work no I reach
out to him I got a chat is he you know
he's more sensitive tonight he do did
you text him I did understand what did
you say in the text like hey
you know I said listen no hard feelings
yeah I love you too say no hard feelings
you're the one who inside yeah well did
I no no no no but you know you should
attention you up what I did say though
as I said you know I'll be tuning into a
son playing at UCLA this ya better shoot
the day of all 30 times Alabama did not
see him pass once yeah he posted
photographs of himself like dunking on
12 guys and like does this look like
easy yeah things are good things are
okay yeah you again
yeah you guys ever hang out together I
don't have time what about look neither
is he well Taco Tuesday have you been to
Taco Tuesday I have not you have no well
I've been living in LA for like 20 years
right to a Latina so you've been your
own Taco Tuesday LeBrons Taco Tuesday
that he loses his mind over every week
every week it's like it's like a holiday
is that mean listen everybody has their
thing bro like Taco Tuesday that's gonna
get him going and get some gold it's
awesome do you take any role in
encouraging guys like Oh LeBron you know
Lakers free agents to come to Los
Angeles other than maybe a tweet or
something oh no no I stay away from it
you know I'm real close with Rob
obviously uh-huh Rob blanket yeah so
we'll talk often just as a sounding
board for him would you be allowed to do
that or would Rob get fined if you were
to do something like I can do that you
could do it so you could be his
surrogate and you could actually reach
out to hey I could but I won't you won't
know why won't you well I know I stay
away from that stuff uh-huh like Rob is
uh he's more than capable of handling
the job and all the pressure that comes
along with that
you know I'm quick to tell him listen
man you're my guy but you didn't get on
the court at score 40 points for me
either
so uh huh I'm not gonna do your job did
he say I would have if I could no I mean
like we have a great
so we'll talk and stuff and you
know just as friends but nothing
nothing's here were you surprised that
Kawhi Leonard chose the Clippers over
the Lakers um sure
you were yeah you thought he was gonna
go to the Lakers yeah sure
yeah cool who will go farther in the
playoffs the Lakers of the Clippers this
season ah it depends and I say that not
to be kind of cheeky about it but like
injuries has played such a huge part
let's say both teams are beautifully
healthy from here on out a lot of ifs
yeah a lot of yeah a lot of you know
cousins got hurt but let's say the okay
yeah and what is is Houston healthy as
well Golden State healthy as well like
we're just doing just going down right
name that LA rivalry is gonna are there
because what if they plan an injured you
stand Rockies team and James can't play
mm-hmm Oh what if they're playing you
know an injured Golden State team can't
you play along with my game no no I
cannot I cannot I cannot decision many
variables my man like I got a cut
thinking is overrated Kobe we had a lot
of fun and we've got much more with Kobe
to share and if you would like to
remember Kobe in a philanthropic way
please make a donation to K V BFF dot
org the Kobe and Vanessa Bryant Family
Foundation help them help kids here in
Los Angeles and all over the world when
we return we will see Kobe and his
Lakers teammates just after they won his
fourth NBA title back in 2009 play
Center no guard play guard yes that's
surprising I think I'm made of your size
a play center well I'll play only what
makes it can guys okay good luck so you
can with a champion you are gonna give
you high five Mexican okay all right
thank you thank you Kobe Bryant good
luck
[Music]
Kobe and the Lakers went on to win the
finals in five games after that Mexican
high five very well done Guillermo
tonight we're remembering Kobe Bryant
who always made time for us here two of
those times were right after the Lakers
won the NBA title this one was in 2009 I
love this interview because even though
he was very serious on the court you can
see how much fun Kobe and his teammates
had off of it too
[Applause]
[Music]
what does it feel like to be the first
african-american MVP of the NBA when
designer congratulation good I saw all
of you that is a beautiful trophy
what do you weld that onto the front of
your car you know just as a head
ornament would be that's a good idea
driving around la you get to like bring
that around like the Stanley Cup or does
it go back to headquarters it seems like
you should get at least one of those
yourself no we should well you know they
do like mini versions of their and small
yeah we get like small ones they
don't offer them though they don't all
we have to purchase them you do really
really well maybe you would you got one
will you left the ring yeah well we'll
take up a collection I'm sure yes you
guys deserve it certainly what a great
you know well it was a great well the
finals weren't supreme it was great for
you guys wasn't so great for the Oh end
of magic and well President Obama
predicted you'd win in six games
you wanted five game right you feel like
he disappointed him
no no you know laws of outcome remain
consistent it's all good it's a funny
thing you know when Obama makes a
prediction the other team's coach always
gets mad and go he should have better
things to be concentrating on then who's
gonna win the game right were you guys
excited went because Obama's like almost
always right about the he picked the
Steelers in the Super Bowl he's really I
mean he could be a handicapper if he
wasn't the president
ladies he's a president of the United
States would you expect I guess so
now Derek you off the record said you
should have been named MVP
you said you'd be carrying Kobe too long
let's look at those three-point shots
and I think game for me
[Applause]
boy this guy right here has a pair of
the biggest cojones when it comes to
sugar I think so because you'd missed
five three point you were all four five
so far and but the Zek are you hesitate
at all at night thanks for bringing up
the bear for Jimmy but in a way it's a
good part because if I went oh four five
well I would go over eight it did be
honest but if I if I miss five in a row
I don't know I think I just say hey
somebody else you get a chance yeah no
no I
these guys right here man and the guys
that'll be out later they always with me
you know so I'm always confident no
matter what's going on I know I'm gonna
come through for my guys they've come
through for me so many times so how you
are you're staying actually you know
there's something that's bothering me
because your name is like a Batman sound
effect pow I have something for you I
got you a letter L you put at the end of
your name and it could be like elves or
Lakers
we'll be Paul from now on right and I
think it'll make it easier for us as a
merit but it keeps it unique you know I
like I like that you're you like
that clarify so cuz he won't say it okay
his name is pawel people keep calling on
Paul they call mother so his name is not
Paul it's power thank you
yes so everybody denounces me and Paul
yeah I'm saying if you just take this L
it could be Paul you know Paul Gasol all
this all right what happens when you get
back to Spain will there be a parade for
you is did they watch everybody watches
they did watch I'm so proud of everybody
in Spain because it's so hard with the
time change and everything at 3 up 3 4
in the morning wake up and actually
watch the game and watch us play they
were so excited and so thrilled that we
were able to get this amazing trophies
so well women there be enthusiastic
about making love to you when you get
back
[Applause]
sure
and Trevor you you played for the Olin
Orlando Magic does it make it more fun
to beat them since these are the guys
you played with there is less fun come
on man to beat them especially on their
home floor was a undescribable feeling
really yeah there was a team that traded
me away you know so to come home
I want to share one other key play from
that same game I think it's from Game
four here let's take a look
[Applause]
Kobe and the Lakers won the title again
the next year beating their arch-rivals
the Boston Celtics and that one was
especially sweet and we will have that
interview from 2010 when we come back
you played with Dennis Rodman for a
short time do you think he is the
solution to our problem with North Korea
do you think that he is the guy to go
over there and you know it's a crazy
world man you never know and focus on
stopping this potential nuclear warhead
that could come over that seems more
important than the game yeah but I'd
probably pass you would pass on that one
I probably bet once you're passing yeah
we had a lot of laughs over Kobe's many
appearances on our show this interview
is from 2010 when the Lakers avenged
their lost two years earlier to the
Boston Celtics and Kobe and his
teammates were in very very good spirits
in the hours before the victory parade
[Applause]
now the ice here thanks for coming who
stayed up the latest last night just out
of curiosity Ron are you wearing your
like earpiece yes I still go to sleep
yet are you planning to I mean these
guys put me doing with some type of
emotional rollercoaster and helped me
get my first ring and I just can't sleep
Wow when Ron came to the team last year
I thought oh no this is terrible it's
gonna screw everything up because I said
Ron's a great player obviously but Ron
is crazy
Ron's a famous person and then sure
enough I was wrong and Ron you have been
like I mean you didn't Twitter you
didn't tweet through the whole series
you have been awhile you were up all
night now let's go be down
oh yeah I copy this yes we did you get
in trouble Coby no also I want to say
I'm sorry to hear pal got deported
Bobi you said a couple of times during
the the series you said that it didn't
matter that it was the Celtics that it
was a series and it did make no
difference in fact let's show that video
thing what does it mean to you to be in
the game 7 in the finals and especially
against the Celtics no different than me
you need to be a buzzkill but it's not
you were lying right I mean that was a
lie right yeah can't let these guys guy
I know
[Applause]
two years ago and I know and I spoke to
you about this you were very you were
very upset that the Celtics beat maybe
it is a Laker you got to beat the
Celtics and that's you know that's a
very important thing and I know that you
respect the history of the franchise and
and you were I would honestly I would
have bet a my my house my car everything
my children etc that you were gonna win
because when we spoke about it you were
so serious and so intense about it well
we're a little we're upset we're sad me
Derek and I Derek didn't care as much I
don't think you look so well man and
also he's got a quicker temper did not
do for real you gave like more than once
to be inspirational speech to the team
before and during Game seven
yeah during game said what do you say
what did you say to these guys I mean
just you know tried to keep reminding
guys that I mean whatever happened in
the game so far we can't play any worse
than what we've been playing so let's
just you know let's just relax a very
democratic way to say you guys are
playing like a bunch of idiots where is
Adam Morrison because he was in the suit
pretty much the whole time and I thought
it would be funny if he came out in a
uniform for once you know Adam there
he's one of our favorite teammates of
all time he looks like a porn star
[Applause]
he looks like he's stepped right out of
boogie Ron's pants I was sorry that Adam
didn't come because I feel like he I
mean I on the court as much but well we
have a little video presentation I'd
like you guys to look at we have
monitored right here
Adam Morrison's contribution to the NBA
Finals
[Music]
[Applause]
first of all let me just say that was
funny as hell but secondly let me just
say that you know that's a testament to
our team honestly because Adam to really
play not like ready to really really go
and for him to take a step back and to
do things like that really helped us get
to the championship level this is my
favorite move from last night we have
videotape here now watch
[Applause]
is that right that's everything before
him and Powell both for the mirror Oh
when we come back we will go back to
2008 when Kobe brought an Olympic gold
medal back home to Los Angeles Kobe won
an Oscar in 2018 here in five rings with
the Lakers and was a two-time Olympic
gold medalist tonight we are remembering
our much to brief time with him
this clip what you're about to see is
from one of his first appearances on our
show after he led Team USA the redeemed
team as they called it to victory at the
2008 Summer Games
[Applause]
is it possible ever to get tired of
hearing that no no I wouldn't go
absolutely no I know you're gonna bring
the gold medal you know what I actually
did it oh you did oh I did
there's humble Wow
[Applause]
[Music]
that is subject special I don't think
it's a good idea to keep it in your
pocket they're gonna wind up in the
hamper or something no no thank you so
much for this that is really and in
President Bush was at the he didn't
locker room with you guys it looked
right here oh yeah what was he up to
there no you know what he came in the
day was to support a threatened you guys
know one of our players I'm not I'm not
gonna name names um asked if you had any
free gas cards oh is that right yeah all
right and um I won't die my mom what's
going on here
[Applause]
is brain it in with either they
reactivated John Stockton or that's I'll
think he had on the little shorts this
talk well that is something out he was a
cheerleader at one time so that I guess
it's appropriate how old your kids know
five and two and did they get you it did
they get your present for your birthday
you know what before the gold medal game
my oldest daughter always doing Natalya
drew a picture of a gold medal you know
with the ribbon and also stuff say good
luck again took a with me in the locker
room I took it with me to lacrima for
the game and I just put it up there
against the wall and everybody came and
took a look at it and stuff and yeah you
hate to make her break her crayons out
okay it's silver out there no it's great
you know I'll tell you that it's what
you think about you think about kids the
thing about kids man is that yeah you
know you don't want you don't want to
disappoint them it's like before the
game you're doing the national anthem so
we're all standing there in line doing
the national anthem I look up in a stand
I see my wife and I see our daughters
and you know they're like singing USA
you know they have like the flag and
everything you're just looking at me
just like man I'm better not f this up
yeah national anthem plan you can't help
but get a little emotional
well when we come back one of my
favorite interviews with Kobe one in
which he talks about LeBron coaching his
daughter's basketball team and what he
called the Mamba mentality tonight we
are looking back at moments we shared
with Kobe Bryant one of the greatest
players in the history of the NBA and
Kobe was a basketball player he was an
author too he Kobe was in relentless
pursuit of perfection in this
conversation from 2018 we talked about
many things his daughters
LeBron his book the Mamba mentality and
I think this clip does a very good job
of illustrating Kobe's never-resting
commitment to being the best he could
possibly be
[Applause]
that's got a big mess
how you doing what's going on everything
all right yeah
enjoying retirement is it fun I'm
enjoying retirement I know you're doing
a lot of other things but uh but it's
fun
do you watch the Lakers have you been
sitting and watching the games I watched
uh the last eight minutes of the fourth
quarter in overtime last night because
yeah my team my girls we practice every
night with my team so diet I get a
chance to watch the game from yeah
you're coaching yeah I'm coaching so
we're probably games in a row with the
Lakers have to lose for you to unretire
for you to come back to the team if we
got to 20 you would think about it right
oh and father you will think about it oh
I guess LeBron may take those games just
to get you on the court how involved
were you in in LeBron coming to LA did
you speak to him no I didn't speak to
him about coming to LA but I spoke to
Jeanne she Jeannie Bocchini Buster the
owner at the team yeah I mean she wanted
to get LeBron here mm-hmm but you're not
gonna have the Browns not gonna come
here if management isn't figured out
gotcha
so you have to figure out management you
have to make sure that things are clean
things there's a focus going forward
it's not chaotic as it has been in years
past and and she did that and now yet
here we are or three but you're you're
worried about your own team your
coaching your daughter's team I am
they're doing well though I mean they've
been playing for like a year and a half
what's their record they don't have
seasons it's crazy they just have
tournaments like every weekend I see and
if they don't win the tournaments do you
like do they have to sleep in the yard
or anything like that or because of
anyone if that anyone would think like
that I would think it would be the mom
of mentality we're just running for two
hours straight in practice no water
breaks push-ups and sit-ups
how serious do you get like are you guys
breaking down game film what's going on
yet but we will you will okay you know
what we're trying to do is you try to
teach the kids what excellence looks
like right and it's not that you know
some of them may want to play in a WNBA
some of them may not right but we try to
give them a foundation
of the amount of work and preparation
that it takes to be excellent and
whatever it is that you choose to do
alright so we're here playing basketball
we're gonna focus on the details we're
gonna learn the basics gonna learn the
fundamentals we're gonna do those things
over and over and and hopefully it's
something that they can apply to other
areas in their life do you think your
daughter might want to play in the WNBA
she does for sure she does I don't it
means
this kid man what happe great dude man
the best thing the best thing that
happens is when you go out and fans have
come up to me and she'll be standing
next to me and be like and you gotta
have a boy you and Vee gotta have a boy
may have somebody carry on your
tradition the legacy she's like oh you I
got this you got this
how old are the kids now fifteen twelve
and our little one bianco be - you guys
have Halloween costumes figured out they
got mine figured I'll never know what
the heck's going on they're just telling
me this is what you're wearing oh is
that right cool I'm putting this on you
and will you trick-or-treat or we go
trick-or-treating nephew doing Halloween
so you're in a costume what were you
laughs I'm in a costume and a cut last
year we were a league of their own so I
was the black Tom Hanks I was just
planning it kind of like flip through it
before he came on and I got really
invested in it it's good because you go
through well first of all you're a
lunatic I mean there's no two ways about
it
you know you always hear about your
preparation and all these things you do
whether when you read the specifics it's
like oh my god this is a mental patient
[Applause]
you're aware of that were you always
aware of that I am self aware of my
lunacy yeah one of the things that I
thought was most interesting in the book
is that you read and when this goes back
to the lunatic thing you read the
referees official handbook to find out
where the referees are on the court
explain this
oh it's idea is a rulebook and the
officials have to be in certain
positions so if you watch a game you'll
see officials sliding in different areas
you have your slot official and so forth
so on and so I read it to understand
where they need to be in certain moments
of time so if I need to get away with a
foul the slaughter fish was not gonna
see this little hold right here then had
any player you know ever done that
before but I know that is interesting in
order to protect and correct me if I
have any of this wrong in order to
protect your ankles you learned to tap
dance I did why didn't we know this well
kept secret for obvious reasons do they
make tap shoes in your size I do get
amazed you had to get a mane how to get
him I can't go to this like a storm yeah
I'll take those size 14s no yeah you
can't you can't really call Nike and say
hey guys have tap shoes no so are you an
accomplished tapper do you know how to
tap you or not
no but one summer for a year there yeah
yeah really I could like tell my feet to
do this and they would actually do that
right and you don't ever do it anymore I
know I don't I don't
my first class doll walked into the
studio and it's always like six year old
really straight up man studio Santa
Monica and these kids are looking at me
like no wow this is yeah and you never
do it you want to do a little tap it
go get coke
Guillermo go get forget a giant pair of
tap shoes
[Applause]
thank you for joining us tonight
on the Satta night I wish it had been
under happier circumstances Magic
Johnson will be with us tomorrow night
on the show and again if you would like
to make a donation to the Kobe and
Vanessa Bryant Family Foundation you can
do it at the address on your screen we
pray for everyone who was lost yesterday
and those they left behind the children
their parents and Kobe Bryant who is
gone but will never be forgotten
O'Brien to alum in now to talk about de
tous pigs shoes
shaky down
Trude or consequence say it aloud
81-point
use that evidence racing
[Music]
watch him
yeah
[Music]
these are generic
watch him
[Music]
these are the narrow
[Applause]
[Music]
you